Add a new doc to introduce how to customize monitor servers in tiup … (#8007)
pingcap/docs: tiup/customized-montior-in-tiup-environment.md

## Customize the configurations of Grafana

Currently, TiUP supports customizing Grafana Dashboard and other configurations.

1. Customize the configuration file of the Grafana Dashboard and place it under a directory of the machine where TiUP locates.

2. In the topology.yaml file, set `dashboard_dir` to the directory that contains the customized Dashboard configuration file.

    The following is a configuration example of monitoring_servers in the topology.yaml file:

    ```
    # # Server configs are used to specify the configuration of Grafana Servers.
    grafana_servers:
      # # The ip address of the Grafana Server.
     - host: 127.0.0.1
     dashboard_dir: /home/tidb/dashboards   # grafana dashboard dir on TiUP machine
    ```

After the preceding configuration is done, when you deploy, scale out, scale in, or reload a TiDB cluster, TiUP loads the customized Dashboard configuration file from the directory **/home/tidb/dashboards** of the machine where TiUP locates. Then, TiUP sends the configuration to the Grafana Server. The default Dashboard configuration is replaced with the customized configuration.

> ### Customize other configurations of Grafana

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customize other Grafana configurations
```

1. Open the topology.yaml file of the TiDB cluster.

2. Add other configuration items in the `grafana_servers` configuration.

>     The following is a configuration example of the `[log.file] level` field and `smtp` in the topology.yaml file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The following is a configuration example of the `[log.file] level`  and `smtp` fields in the topology.yaml file:
```

    ```
    # # Server configs are used to specify the configuration of Grafana Servers.
    grafana_servers:
    # # The ip address of the Grafana Server.
    - host: 127.0.0.1
        config:
        log.file.level: warning
        smtp.enabled: true
        smtp.host: {IP}:{port}
        smtp.user: example@pingcap.com
        smtp.password: {password}
        smtp.skip_verify: true
    ```

> After the preceding configuration is done, when you deploy, scale out, scale in, or reload a TiDB cluster, TiUP adds the `config` field to Grafana's configuration file grafana.ini.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the preceding configuration is done, when you deploy, scale out, scale in, or reload a TiDB cluster, TiUP adds the `config` field to the Grafana configuration file `grafana.ini`.
```

## Customize the configurations of Alertmanager

Currently, TiUP supports customizing the listening address of Alertmanager.

Alertmanager deployed by TiUP listens to `alertmanager_servers.host` by default. You cannot access Alertmanager if you use a proxy. To address this issue, you can specify the listening address by adding `listen_host` to the cluster configuration file topology.yaml. The recommended value is 0.0.0.0.

The following example sets the `listen_host` field to 0.0.0.0.

```
alertmanager_servers:
  # # The ip address of the Alertmanager Server.
  - host: 172.16.7.147
    listen_host: 0.0.0.0
    # # SSH port of the server.
    ssh_port: 22
```

> After the preceding configuration is done, when you deploy, scale out, scale in, or reload a TiDB cluster, TiUP adds the `listen_host` field to `--web.listen-address` of the Alertmanager's startup parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the preceding configuration is done, when you deploy, scale out, scale in, or reload a TiDB cluster, TiUP adds the `listen_host` field to `--web.listen-address` in Alertmanager startup parameters.
```

---
title: Customize Configurations of Monitoring Servers
summary: Learn how to customize the configurations of monitoring servers
---

# Customize Configurations of Monitoring Servers

> When you deploy a TiDB cluster using TiUP, TiUP also deploys monitoring servers, such as Prometheus, Grafana, and Alertmanager. In the meantime, if you scale out this cluster, TiUP also adds corresponding monitoring servers to the new nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you deploy a TiDB cluster using TiUP, TiUP also deploys monitoring servers, such as Prometheus, Grafana, and Alertmanager. In the meantime, if you scale out this cluster, TiUP also adds the new nodes into monitoring scope.
```

To customize the configurations of the monitoring servers mentioned above, you can follow the instructions below to add related configuration items in the topology.yaml of the TiDB cluster.

> **Note:**
>

> > - Do not modify the configurations directly to customize the configurations of the monitoring servers. Because these modifications will be overwritten by later TiUP operations such as deployment, scaling out, scaling in, and reloading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Do not modify the configurations files on the monitoring server directly. Because these modifications will be overwritten by later TiUP operations such as deployment, scaling out, scaling in, and reloading.
```

> > - When customizing the configurations of the monitoring servers, do not modify the configurations directly, because these modifications will be overwritten by later TiUP operations such as deployment, scaling out, scaling in, and reloading.

Author: ```suggestion
> - Do not modify the configurations directly to customize the configurations of the monitoring servers. Because these modifications will be overwritten by later TiUP operations such as deployment, scaling out, scaling in, and reloading.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
>
```

> Noticeably, TiUP overwrites the configurations of the monitoring servers by using its configurations. That means, after you modify the configuration files of the monitoring servers, you might find that your modifications do not take effect because these modifications are overwritten by later TiUP operations such as deployment, scaling out, scaling in, and reloading.
> 
> To customize the configurations of the monitoring servers mentioned above, you can follow the instructions below to add related configuration items in the topology.yaml of the TiDB cluster.
> 
> > **Note:**
> >

Author: ```suggestion
To customize the configurations of the monitoring servers mentioned above, you can follow the instructions below to add related configuration items in the topology.yaml of the TiDB cluster.

> **Note:**
>
> - When customizing the configurations of the monitoring servers, do not modify the configurations directly, because these modifications will be overwritten by later TiUP operations such as deployment, scaling out, scaling in, and reloading.

```

### Customize Prometheus scrape configuration

1. Open the topology.yaml file of the TiDB cluster.

2. In the `monitoring_servers` configuration, add the `additional_scrape_conf` field.

    The following is a configuration example of monitoring_servers in the topology.yaml file:

    ```
    monitoring_servers:
    - host: xxxxxxx
    ssh_port: 22
    port: 9090
    deploy_dir: /tidb-deploy/prometheus-9090
    data_dir: /tidb-data/prometheus-9090
    log_dir: /tidb-deploy/prometheus-9090/log
    external_alertmanagers: []
    arch: amd64
    os: linux
    additional_scrape_conf:
      metric_relabel_configs:
        - source_labels: [__name__]
            separator: ;
            regex: tikv_thread_nonvoluntary_context_switches|tikv_thread_voluntary_context_switches|tikv_threads_io_bytes_total
            action: drop
        - source_labels: [__name__,name]
            separator: ;
            regex: tikv_thread_cpu_seconds_total;(tokio|rocksdb).+
            action: drop
    ```

> After the preceding configuration is done, when you deploy, scale out, scale in, or reload a TiDB cluster, TiUP adds the `additional_scrape_conf` field to the corresponding parameter of the Prometheus configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the preceding configuration is done, when you deploy, scale out, scale in, or reload a TiDB cluster, TiUP adds the `additional_scrape_conf` field to the corresponding parameters of the Prometheus configuration file.
```

## Customize the configurations of Grafana

> Currently, TiUP supports custoizing Grafana Dashboard and other configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, TiUP supports customizing Grafana Dashboard and other configurations.
```

### Customize Grafana Dashboard

1. Customize the configuration file of the Grafana Dashboard and place it under a directory of the machine where TiUP locates.

2. In the topology.yaml file, set `dashboard_dir` to the directory of the customized Dashboard configuration file.

>     The following is a configuration example of monitoring_servers in the topology.yaml file:

Author: ```suggestion
    The following is a configuration example of grafana_servers in the topology.yaml file:
```
